I know you guys may be expecting me to
make yet another video approaching one
of my fellow vegans for being an idiot
for one thing I can recognize when other
vegans have their hearts in the right
place that's my slogan yeah yeah yeah a
lot of people are trying to do the right
thing from their perspective even if I
think they're wrong even if I think that
what they have to say may be misleading
or even harmful to the movement and I've
mentioned that a lot of videos lately I
also often do manage to criticize my
fellow vegans without calling them
idiots or I just reflect on the issues
that have come up in their videos it's
true I mean many of the things that are
said in this particular video making
response to or somewhat offensive to me
I think are counterproductive for
veganism and some of them are frankly
idiotic if you're familiar with my
channel you can probably make a list of
them yourself but there's one idea that
just comes up here in passing that I
wanted to have a slow down and really
pause to think on it's actually the kind
of throwaway comment that these issues
are not black and white that none of
these issues are black and white that
none of these moral questions are black
and white now actually I think it's
worth pausing to reflect that in
veganism some issues are black and white
my own channel is almost relentlessly
focused on gray areas within veganism
within questions of animal rights and
activism etc etc because that's where I
feel we need to you know push the
dialogue forward within the movement
questions about the future of the
movement often we get into technical
issues and gray areas I get fan mail
from people where they really say wow I
never even thought about that before etc
um oh but to contrast a gray area to
what I consider a truly black and white
issue an issue that's so obvious we all
see it every day we walk past it every
day but you may ignore it um I do think
that the question of the exploitation of
animals in medical research is a gray
area and I note even some abolitionist
vegans like Gary francais ona himself
they will confess that it's a gray area
or that it's at least much more morally
complex than other questions of
meat-eating so Gary France aeona if
you've been watching interviews he gives
on television and radio he says almost
exactly the same thing verbatim every
time a journalist asked them about
vivisection which is two animals being
dissected or exploited for um you know
to find the cure for cancer
theoretically for some supposedly moral
and scientific purpose he will always
say well you know if you're going to ask
me about that at least that's an
interesting debate to have he'll say
exploiting and killing animals simply
for pleasure and convenience for food
that's unnecessary and unhealthy that's
not a debate that's not debatable but
yes if you want to ask me about
vivisection exploitation panels for
scientific research at least that is a
debate worth having he'll often vaguely
allude to the position of people for the
ethical treatment of animals and other
other parties on this now I am sure that
he would never step down from his formal
position as an abolitionist vegan which
is to say everything should be abolished
it's not that new us it's not that hard
to grasp I mean I realized that's where
he's coming from her is going fine um
but implicit in that whole approach
which again I have heard him say
verbatim too many different journalists
it is actually acknowledging a gray area
or at least something of greater moral
complexity than meat itself but in as
much as we acknowledge gray or is the
concept becomes meaningless if
everything is a gray area I think it's
also really worthwhile to acknowledge
what is a hard black and white issue
within veganism I live in a society
where everyone around me is wearing
leather shoes why leather shoes are
obsolete 500 years ago different
situation today leather shoes do not in
any way positively contribute to society
there is no utility there's no
justification they are as close to a
pure evil as anything imaginable with
most complex moral questions we're
looking at a trade off people say they
want to support human rights in Syria
when they say support what they mean is
engage in an aerial bombardment campaign
well if your method of supporting human
rights is dropping bombs on human being
means I do understand the rationale I do
understand the political goal I am but
there's a trade-off there's they're
obviously both advantages and
disadvantages to aerial bombardment as a
method of promoting human rights whether
it's in Syria or in Laos or Cambodia and
United States foreign policy has a very
show is a mixed history of the use of
the air force as a method of promoting
foreign rights pardon me as a method of
promoting Human Rights abroad different
different debate but when we're looking
at something as simple and ubiquitous as
leather shoes we see we see leather
shoes around us every day we're looking
at something that people primarily by
because its associated with wealth with
privilege I mean love you I can remember
from my childhood well okay keeping all
the way real when I was a child one of
the objects in our household that
fascinated me was a little box that
contained all the tools that people
needed to polish leather boots you know
there's a brush and there were these
chemicals and the chemicals had this
toxic smell and you know it was this
sort of complex fascinating world and
you want to ask my parents about they
said yeah in the past people used to
does a job you know the people would
actually shine shoes for a living this
used to be something really important in
Western culture people used to put in a
lot of time and effort to shining their
shoes sort of all this cultural baggage
around polishing and shining and
maintaining boots leather boots leather
shoes and you know as you guys probably
know because this is the internet there
are people who are fascinated with these
things sexually in terms of their sense
of image and importance and you know
[Music]
when it comes right down to it you're
torturing animals to death you're
exploiting them you're making your
having animals being born and living the
whole lives in a in a shed in a concrete
on a concrete floor in a steel cage
under a steel sky to produce an object
that has zero utility right and while
Gary Francie only even Gary Francine
even the the holier than thou completely
pious a bushing what he's admitting is
that in vivisection the medical
chances actually you're talking about
killing animals for some utility and if
you want a very clear example of that
there's the exploitation of animals and
laboratories not for research but where
their fluids are being used to actually
produce serums to produce medicine
themselves I guess the easiest example
is the use of snakes to produce
anti-venom to save human lives right so
there's utility it may be immoral if
need be shocking would have you not
everything can be a gray area right not
everything is debatable and what's
interesting to me about vegan politics
it contrasts every other form of
politics is that the most black and
white issues are the ones staring us in
the face every day what should American
foreign policy be in Syria it's not a
black-and-white issue right now what
should American foreign policy be in the
Ukraine it's not a black-and-white issue
hey what should Canadian foreign policy
be in Israel and Palestine I mean oh
these issues some of them have been
kicked around in the news for many years
with no particular decisive outcome in a
sense I mean I think growing up watching
the modern Western news media trains us
to regard every issue as having two
sides to the story and a little five
minute broadcast where they interview
one person representing the Conservative
Party and one person representing the
Liberal Party at the end they say well
we can all agree this is a complex issue
in a gray area and it's not clear how
we're going to move forward this is kind
of part of the the bourgeois apparatus
of postmodern life is this indecisive
conclusion to the politely phrase news
broadcast and then we change the channel
and we all get on with their lives and
we in a sense or reassured that there is
no simple answer that it's a complex
murky question that it's a gray area and
why do we feel reassured because that
means we don't have to do a goddamn
thing about it somebody else somewhere
as an expert somebody knows more about
vivisection than you somebody knows more
about Syria somebody is sitting in an
office whether it's in the State
Department or the sea
I a or in Congress or in Parliament in
your country somebody's making that
decision so you don't have to think
about it and in a sense the hardest
political decisions of our time are made
into a form of entertainment to distract
you from the bottom of your bourgeois
daily life and veganism is not like that
veganism actually does deal with some
very hard black and white issues
veganism actually does involve a call to
action that involves you not just as a
consumer it involves you changing your
life to change the world step by step
involves you recognizing that yes
actually if you choose to put on those
leather shoes it means a whole lot more
than just leather shoes you are
capitulating in you are becoming
complicit in an unbelievably evil and a
necessary industry so leather shoes a
black-and-white issue and I've realized
that people like this think it is polite
and self-effacing and friendly they say
well it's all shades of grey everyone's
got a different perspective there's more
than one way to look at it blah blah
blah because that's what we've all grown
up seeing on the nightly news sometimes
sometimes in politics yes we have to say
this is black and white there's right
and wrong and in some sense negotiations
are over given these facts you've got to
make a choice for what kind of person
you're going to be and whether or not
you're willing to get up off your ass
and buy a new pair of shoes on point of
moral principle really compared to
getting off your ass and trying to do
something for human rights in Syria it's
not asking a lot